# INT 301 Academic Task 03

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image1.png){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="2.751388888888889in"}

## Using Open Source Software to Audit :-

Network, System software and Physical security of your system

By-Gurpreet Singh(11903687)

gurpreet.11903687@gmail.com

## Introduction

Organizations confront a rising number of security risks that may
compromise their networks, software, and physical devices in today\'s
quickly changing digital environment. Maintaining a strong security
posture is essential for organisations to safeguard their vital assets
and data from potential breaches and assaults. This in-depth security
report has been created to examine the organization\'s present network
security, system software security, and physical security while offering
takeaways and suggestions for improvement.

## Project Objective

This project\'s main goal is to assess the security architecture of the
company, spot gaps and weaknesses, and offer concise, doable advice for
improving the overall security posture. The undertaking seeks to

1.  Fully evaluate the network security of the firm, finding any
    potential weaknesses and related with network topology, unrestricted
    ports, services, and intrusion prevention measures.

2.  In order to safeguard the organization\'s software inventory from
    known vulnerabilities, malware, and other threats, the system
    software security should be evaluated. This should be done by
    performing antivirus scanning, vulnerability assessments, intrusion
    detection, and system hardening.

3.  Determine the system\'s physical security, making sure that the
    hardware, add-ons, and data

storage locations are sufficiently shielded from illegal access, theft,
or manipulation.

## Description

A thorough analysis of the organization\'s security architecture across
network security, system software security, and physical security is
provided in the complete security report. The study uses a variety of
open-source technologies and security best practises to pinpoint gaps,
risks, and vulnerabilities. The results are then organised into a
systematic style that provides insightful explanations and doable
suggestions for improvement.

## Scope

The following topics are covered by this in-depth security report:
Network Security:

1.  Examining the network infrastructure of the company, including its
    open ports, services, and intrusion detection and prevention
    systems.

2.  System Software Security: Evaluation of the organization\'s software
    inventory, including operating systems, programmes, and other
    software parts, with an emphasis on antivirus and malware
    protection, vulnerability analyses, intrusion detection, and system
    hardening measures.

3.  Security controls such as access control systems, video
    surveillance, safe storage, and other pertinent security measures
    are evaluated as part of the organization\'s physical security.

The firm may enhance overall security, better safeguard crucial assets,
and reduce the risk of cyber-attacks, data breaches, and physical
security incidents by addressing the vulnerabilities and putting the
suggested solutions within the purview of this study into practise.

## System Description

The organization\'s network infrastructure, system software, and
physical security measures are all included in the target system for the
complete security report. Servers, routers, switches, firewalls, and
other network equipment make up the network infrastructure. Operating
systems, programmes, databases, and other types of software are all
included in system software. Access control systems, video monitoring,
safe storage, and other pertinent security controls are included in the
physical security measures.

## Analysis Report

* System snapshots

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image2.jpeg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="3.45in"}

### Network security

In order to create a report in Wireshark, network traffic must normally
be captured, filters must be applied, and data must be exported in a
certain format.

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image3.jpg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="4.788888888888889in"}

Open Wireshark, then choose the network interface from which you wish to
collect traffic (e.g., Ethernet, Wi-Fi).

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image4.jpeg){width="6.835442913385827in"
height="3.847916666666667in"}

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image5.jpg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="4.761111111111111in"}

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image6.jpeg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="3.917361111111111in"}

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image7.jpeg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="3.6972222222222224in"}

Go to \"File\" \> \"Export Packet Dissections\" in the main menu to
create a report. The following are your choices for exporting the data:

1.  Export the data as a plain text file by selecting \"As Plain Text.\"

2.  By selecting \"As CSV,\" you may export the data in CSV format.

3.  Export the data as C-style arrays by selecting \"As C Arrays\".

4.  Export the data in JSON format by selecting \"As JSON.\"

5.  Export the data in Packet Details Markup Language (PDML) format by
    selecting \"As PDML.\"

6.  Export the data in Packet Summary Markup Language (PSML) format by
    selecting \"As PSML.\"

7.  Provide the file name and location for the exported report\'s file
    and the chosen export format.

8.  To produce the report, click \"Save.

### Software security

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image8.jpeg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="4.032638888888889in"}

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image9.jpeg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="3.4819444444444443in"}

1.  Generating a report in OWASP Zed Attack Proxy (ZAP) is
    straightforward.

2.  Run ZAP, then set the target web application up for scanning.

3.  Run the target web application through the specified scan (passive
    or active).

4.  The findings of the scanning procedure are presented in the
    \"Alerts\" tab once it is finished.

5.  Go to the main menu and select \"Report\" \> \"Create HTML Report\"
    or \"Generate XML Report\" to create a report. Instead, you may
    select \"Create MD Report\" to generate a report in Markdown format
    or \"Generate JSON Report\" to generate a report in JSON format.

6.  Give the report file a name and specify the place where you want to
    save it in the \"Save\" dialogue box.

7.  To produce the report, click \"Save.\"

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image10.jpeg){width="6.267237532808399in"
height="3.3481003937007876in"}

### Physical security

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image11.jpeg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="4.045833333333333in"}

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image12.jpg){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="4.884027777777778in"}

GitHub Snapshots

##### Setting the global username and email

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image13.png){width="5.486393263342082in"
height="2.0487160979877514in"}

##### Intializing the repository

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image14.png){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="1.8965277777777778in"}

##### **Adding the allthe revisions , committing them and pushing the reports to the github**

Revision 1

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image15.png){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="2.28125in"}

![](vertopal_82f3cf8936fa47d78078bdc632eff2a5/media/image16.png){width="6.268055555555556in"
height="2.0319444444444446in"}

## References

<https://motion-project.github.io/>

<https://usbguard.github.io/>

<https://nvd.nist.gov/>

<https://www.wireshark.org/>

<https://www.zaproxy.org/download/>

<https://www.zaproxy.org/>

GitHub Link

<https://github.com/GurpreetSinghG/11903687_ca3/>
